# aqua-examples

This repository contains some example programs for AQUA, written in both Amber and ZASM.
These can help in the learning of these programming languages and AQUA development in general.

## Guide

This small guide will walk you through the process of running these examples on your machine.
This guide applies to aquaBSD (and other BSD's), GNU/Linux, macOS, and most other Unix-like or Unix-based operating systems.

### Prerequisites 

It is assumed that you have the `aqua-compile` and `aqua` binaries (created automatically by [aqua-unix](https://github.com/inobulles/aqua-unix)) installed and accessible to you on your system.

### Compiling

To compile an example, `cd` into its directory and run:

```sh
$ aqua-compile --lang language_you_want_to_compile
```

This `language_you_want_to_compile` argument should be the name of the parent directory of the example's directory.
Note that if you want to compile an Amber program, you can omit the `--lang` flag:

```sh
$ aqua-compile
```

### Running

Once your example is compiled, an `out/` directory will be generated by `aqua-compile` containing an `out.zpk` file.
This can now either be run by issuing:

```sh
$ aqua --boot out/out.zpk
```

Note that if you have a ZED image activator installed on your system (as is the case with aquaBSD), you can simply issue:

```sh
$ out/out.zpk
```

## Submitting new examples

If you have an example program you've made and would like to submit it to this repository, [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo) this repository on GitHub.
Clone it to your local machine:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/my_username/aqua-examples
$ cd aqua-examples/
```

`my_username` is your username.
Create a new branch:

```
$ git checkout -b my_new_example_branch
```

`my_new_example_branch` can be any name you want.
Then, apply your changes, commit, and push to your branch:

```
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "My new commit message"
$ git push -u origin my_new_example_branch
```

Please make your commit messages as clear as possible.
Finally, head back to GitHub and create a [pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) to this repository.
Someone will review it and may integrate it as an example in this repository.